by 1972 nolan bushnell was met with the
failure of his first arcade game
computer space but he wasn't about to
let this minor setback stand in his way
because the next thing he did was start
a company and after turning to the
Japanese language for a company name
he ended up finding the perfect word
Atari the next thing he did was purchase
a few cheap pinball machines and started
a pinball route around town in order to
get some income rolling in for the
company then his fate would have it in
May of 1972
Magnavox held a private demonstration of
the bank of box Odyssey and this alleged
that one of the people attending the
demonstration was Nolan Bushnell no one
can really confirm if you was actually
there or not but if he was then this
would have been the inspiration that set
off a chain of events that would forever
change history shortly thereafter Nolan
Bushnell hired al Alcorn to come up with
a game similar to the one on the
Magnavox Odyssey but in addition to
having a ball in paddles this one would
have sidewalls and a scoring system not
only did Al create the game no one had
told him to make but he also designed
the game to speed up the longer you play
and the ball to alter its trajectory
depending on where it struck the paddle
with these enhancements in place pong
was born all right yeah all right take
that player - what the hell my plan
against in order to gauge public
reaction no one placed the new game in a
bar along as pinball route called Andy
Capps a few days later the owner of the
bar called them up and informed them
that the machine had stopped working
after inspecting the machine however
they quickly found out that the problem
wasn't with the game itself but actually
the problem lied with all the quarters
clogging up the insides of the machine
so now it was official the pond was a
hit in the next few months
pong became so huge that Atari had
orders coming in from all over the
country popular games at this time we're
generating around $40 a week but pong
was generating over five times that
amount but as soon as pong became
popular another problem was about to hit
atari copycats
within weeks dozens of other companies
started copying the exact same game and
selling their own pong machines by mid
74 less than 1/3 of all the pong
machines that existed were actually made
by Atari in the following months a turn
continued to expand their operation by
releasing slightly altered versions of
pong and they started releasing them
more quickly in order to out-innovate
the competition
these included ping pong pong doubles
Quadra pong super pong and more but
Nolan kept looking for the next big idea
and began asking the staff what else can
we do with video game but our sim
answered that question by releasing a
game call space race breaking away from
the pong formula this game consists of
two spaceships placed at the bottom of
the screen and the goal here is to reach
the top before the other player does and
you must do this while dodging meteors
asteroids and Imperial TIE fighters
crap even though space race was a step
in the right direction the public
response towards this game was lukewarm
best and it performed rather poorly a
few months later a turn released a third
game called gotcha
this two-player game is based on the
concept of one player trying to catch
the other while running around a maze
it's constantly changing but watch out
because these changes can help you
escape or be your downfall getting
caught god this game sucks sadly this
game never became a hit with the public
but there was however some controversy
surrounding it the first production run
of the Gotcha arcade cabinets were made
with these two pink rubber mounts for
controls and people immediately started
calling this the boob game since they
resembled two large breasts after that
Atari then changed the controls to
joysticks but I think I'll just stick
with the version with rubber mounts hey
baby
and if that wasn't enough to make you
wonder about this game just check out
the promotional flyer I'm not sure what
the hell is going on in this picture but
there are definitely some shenanigans
afoot oh I'll just save this for a layer
Atari's next arcade game was called
rebound the point in this game is to
keep the ball from falling off your side
of the screen and the longer you play
the higher the divider net raises just
don't accidentally hit it
sadly like the two games before it
rebound still wasn't hitting the sweet
spot with the public the next game
released in March of 1974 was called
gran track 10 and it became a Terry's
second biggest hit in this game the
player takes control of race car and
your mission is to drive her on the
track as you race against the clock
alright let's burn rubber baby
ah the last Atari game to be
released in 74 was called tank all right
son we're going to war in this game both
players take control of tanks in order
to blow each other up oh and watch out
for the landmines fire to halt you
bastards
even though tank had a very simple
concept it would become a Tories third
popular game by the time 1975 rolled
around video games were slowly catching
on with the masses no one however had
even bigger plans in mind for his
growing company that was now ready to
tackle the home consumer market coming
up next the pong wars
you